.TH DISLIN 1 "15 Dec 2009"
.SH NAME
dislin  - Data Plotting Library

.SH DESCRIPTION
DISLIN is a high-level and easy to use plotting library for 
displaying data as curves, bar graphs, pie charts, 3-D colour
plots, surfaces, contours and maps.

Normally, DISLIN contains native libraries for the programming
languages Fortran 77, Fortran 90 and C and extension modules
for the languages Java, Perl and Python. The following utilities
are included

  clink    disaps   disdrv   disgif   dishlp   disimg  
  disman   dismov   distif   dlink    f90link

.SH  CLINK
Links C programs using DISLIN routines.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                clink    [option]   main

    option      is an optional parameter that can have
                one of the following values:  
           -c   for compiling programs before linking
           -r   for running programs after linking   
           -a   for compiling, linking and running
                programs.

    main        is the  name of  the main program.

Example:        clink  -a  myprg

.SH DISAPS
  Converts an ASCII file to PostScript.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 disaps filename output [options]

  filename       is the name of the ASCII file.

  outout         is the name of the output file. 
                 By default, the name of the input file
                 and the extension ps will be used.

  options        is an optional field of keywords 
                 (see disaps).

.SH DISDRV
  Sends a plotfile to a device or converts the file
  format.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 disdrv filename[.met] [device] [options]

  filename       is the name of the plotfile.

  device         is a device name.
     =  CONS     Tektronix or X Window emulation
                 (default)
     =  XWIN     X Window terminal (small screen mode)
     =  XWND     X Window terminal (full screen mode)

     =  POST     converts a CGM or GKSLIN file to 
                 PostScript.
     =  PSCL     converts a CGM or GKSLIN file to coloured 
                 PostScript.
     =  HPGL     converts a CGM or GKSLIN file to HPGL.
     =  CGM      converts a GKSLIN file to a CGM file.
     =  GKSLIN   converts a CGM file to a GKSLIN file.

  options        is an optional field of keywords 
                 (see disdrv).   

.SH DISHLP
  Prints the description of a DISLIN routine on the
  screen.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 dishlp     [routine]  [options]

  routine        is the name of a DISLIN routine.

  options        is an optional field of keywords 
                 (see dishlp).   

.SH DISIMG
  Displays an image created by DISLIN on the screen or
  sends it to a PostScript printer
 
.SH SYNOPSIS
                 disimg filename[.img] [device] [options]

  filename       is the name of the image file. The file
                 must be created with the routine rimage.

  device         is the device name.

  options        is an optional field of keywords
                 (see disimg).

.SH DISMAN
  Prints an ASCII version of the DISLIN manual on the
  screen.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 disman   [options]

  options        is an optional field of keywords
                 (see disman).   

.SH DISMOV
  Displays a sequence of image files.
 
.SH SYNOPSIS
                 dismov filename[.mov] [device] [options]

  filename       is the name of a data file where the 
                 filenames of the images are stored 
                 (1 line for each filename).
                 The images must be created with the 
                 routine rimage.

  device         is the device name.

  options        is an optional field of keywords
                 (see dismov).

.SH DISTIF
  Displays a TIFF file created by DISLIN on the screen or
  sends it to a PostScript printer.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 distif filename[.tif] [device] [options]

  filename       is the name of the TIFF file. The file
                 must be created with the routine rtiff. 

  device         is the device name.

  options        is an optional field of keywords
                 (see distif).

.SH DLINK
  Links FORTRAN programs using DISLIN routines.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 dlink    [option]   main

      option     is an optional parameter that can have
                 one of the following values:  
             -c  for compiling programs before linking
             -r  for running programs after linking   
             -a  for compiling, linking and running 
                 programs.

      main       is the name of the main program.

  Example:       dlink  -a  myprg

.SH F90LINK
  Links FORTRAN 90 programs using DISLIN routines.

.SH SYNOPSIS
                 f90link    [option]   main

      option     is an optional parameter that can have
                 one of the following values:  
             -c  for compiling programs before linking
             -r  for running programs after linking   
             -a  for compiling, linking and running
                 programs.

      main       is the name of the main program.

  Example:       f90link  -a  myprg

.SH EXAMPLES
  DISLIN examples can be found in the DISLIN subdirectory
  examples. 

.SH AUTHOR
DISLIN is written by 

          Helmut Michels, Tel. (05556) 979334,
          Max Planck Institute  for Solar System Research,
          D-37191 Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany,
          E-mail: michels@mps.mpg.de

.SH URL
The DISLIN Home Page is 

          http://www.dislin.de
